WELL, A FEELING IS NOT A
FACT.
OUR COUNTRY IS ALMOST UNIQUE IN
PEOPLE BELIEVING THAT GLOBAL
WARMING IS NOT A HUMAN CAUSE.
>> ROBERT KENNEDY, JR., A
LIFELONG ADVOCATE OF THE
ENVIRONMENTAL MOVEMENT THANKS IN
PART TO MEMORIES OF HIS DAD
PRIOR TO HIS FATHER's
ASSASSINATION IN 1968.
>> MY FATHER CONSIDERED THIS
PART OF OUR HERITAGE AND OUR
PURPLE MOUNTAINS' MAJESTY.
KENNEDY SAYS THOSE WHO SPONSOR
CLIMATE LIES SHOULD BE
GIVEN THE
DEATH PENALTY.
ARE:
>> SOCIOPATHS.
>> HE WARNS AMERICAN VALUES ARE
UNDER ATTACK.
>> IT'S HARD TO CLAIM WE HAVE A
DEMOCRACY IN OUR COUNTRY.
>> KENNEDY TALKS ABOUT HIS LIFE
AND PERSONAL STRUGGLES.
>> I STARTED
TAKING TRUCKS WHEN
I WAS YOUNG.
SOON AFTER MY DAD DIED.
BUT EVERYBODY HAS TRIED THEM.
THE ENEMY OF ANY PRODUCTIVE
LIFE
IS CIVIL PITY.
>> HE REFLECTS ON THE MONTH HE
SPENT IN A PORT RICAN PRISON
THANKS TO HIS ACTIVISM.
>> YOU ASK WHAT IT WAS LIKE?
EXPERIENCE.
>> WE HAVE SPOKE TO ROBERT
KENNEDY, JR., LAWYER, ACTIVIST,
RADIO ACTIVIST IN NEW YORK.
>> YOU ARE PASSIONATE ABOUT THE
ENVIRONMENT.
WHERE DOES IT COME FROM?
HEN DID IT START?
>> I KNEW I WAS GOING
TO BE AN
ENVIRONMENTAL ADVOCATE.
IN FACT, WHEN I WAS 8S YEARS
OLD, I WROTE A LETTER TO MY
UNCLE, PRESIDENT KENNEDY WHO SAT
IN THE WHITE HOUSE ASKING TO
TALK TO
HIM ABOUT POLLUTION
ISSUES I ALWAYS SAW POLLUTION AS
THEFT.
I THOUGHT WHY SHOULD SOMEBODY BE
ABLE TO POLLUTE THE AIR WHICH
BELONGS TOS ALL
OF US THE FINKS
OF GOVERNMENT IS TO
PROTECT THE
COMMONS ON BEHALF OF ALL OF THE
PEOPLE AND MAKE SURE NOBODY CAN
PRIVATIZE IT.
BUZZ AS DEMOCRACY DECLINES, AS
CONSTITUTIONAL GOVERNMENT
DECLINES AND TIERNY EMERGES, ONE
OF THE FIRST CHARACTERISTICS OF
AN EMERGING TIERNY IS THE
TENDENCY FOR POWERFUL INTERESTS
TO BECOME PRIVATIZING THE
COMMONS AND
STEALING THEM TO THE
FROM THE PUBLIC.
DEMOCRACY.
IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT, YOU KNOW,
BIRDS.
IT'S ABOUT FIGHTING FOR ALL OF
THE VALUES THAT BELIEVE IN.
>> IT'S STILL A LOT, THOUGH, FOR
AN 8-YEAR-OLD TO SORT OF BE ABLE
TO GRASP.
WHAT DID YOUR UNCLE RESPOND?
>> MY UNCLE WROTE THAT BECAUSE
THERE WERE SOME I AM PLANETS ON
K STREET THAT WERE BELCHING THIS
THICK SMOKE WHEN WE WENT TO
CHURCH IN WASHINGTON ON SUNDAY,
IT WOULD BLACKEN
OUR SHIRTS AND
A STREAM I PLAYED IN WHEN I WAS
A LITTLE BOY WAS CALLED PENANT
RUN, A TRIBUTARY TO THE POTOMAC
GOT BURIED BYROAD DEVELOPERS.
THE ANIMALS IN IT, CRAY FISH AND
MUD PUPPIES AND THERE WAS AN
OWL's NEST UP THERE, AND THAT
WAS ALL DESTROYED.  SO, I WROTE
HIM A LETTER AND SAID I WANTED
TO WRITE A BOOK ABOUT
POLLUTION.
HE INVITED ME TO THE WHITE HOUSE
AND I HAD A MEETING WITH HIM IN
THE OVAL.
I HAD PICTURES OF MYSELF IN MY
SHORTY SHORTS.
>> YOU WERE EIGHT YEARS OLD?
>> I WAS EIGHT.
I BROUGHT HIM A SALAMANDAR THAT
I CAUGHT THE NIGHT BEFORE THAT
HAD BEEN KILLED BY
CHLORINE, IN
THE WATER THAT I BROUGHT HIM.
WE SPENT A LOT OF THE MEETING
TALKING ABOUT THE HEALTH OF THE
SALAMANDAR.
HE SAID HE DIDN'T THINK IT
LOOKED WILLIAM.
I SAID I THOUGHT IT WAS
SLEEPING.
WE RELEASED HIM IN THE ROSE
GARDEN FOUNTAIN BUT HE ARRANGED
FOR ME TO -- I SAID I WANTED TO
DO A BOOK ON POLLUTION.
AND HE ARRANGED FOR ME
TO MEET
WITH SECTION TERRI OF INTERIOR
STEWART
UDALL, ONE OF THE
GREATER THAN ENVIRON MENTALISTS
IN OUR NATION's HISTORY AND,
ALSO, FOR RACIAL CARSON.
SHE LAUNCHED THE MODERN
COUNTRY.
>> IT SOUNDS LIKE THIS HAD AN
IMPACT ON YOU AT A FORMATIVE
TIME IN YOUR LIFE.
>> YOU
KNOW, MY MY FATHER HAD A
VERY BIG INFLUENCE ON US BECAUSE
HE PUT US OUT IN THE WILDERNESS
SO MUCH.
AND HE TAUGHT US
HOW TO
WHITE-WATER KAYAK WHEN WE WERE
YOUNG.
HE WOULD TAKE US FISHING.
HE ENCOURAGED ME IN MY INTERESTS
IN ANIMALS AND WILDLIFE, TOOK US
CAMPING, AND TOOK US TO SOME OF
THE MOST -- TO OUR
NATIONAL
PARKS AND TO DO WATER WATER ON
THE SALMON RIVER AND THE SNAKE
AND THE COLORADO, LITTLE
COLORADO, THE YAMPA AND THE
GREEN.
THAT WAS A TIME WHEN PEOPLE
WEREN'T DOING THAT KIND OF
THING, AND BUT HE WANTED TO SHOW
US THIS WILDERNESS AND SAY, THIS
IS PARTS OF YOUR HERITAGE.
THIS
IS, YOU KNOW, AMERICAN
DEMOCRACY IS ROOTED IN
WILDERNESS.
ANDREW JACKSON SAID THAT, OUR
DEMOCRATIC INSTITUTIONS ARE
ROOTED IN THESE VAST TRACKS OF
WILDERNESS AND WOODLAND.
SO MY FATHER CONSIDERED THIS
PART OF OUR HERITAGE AND, YOU
KNOW, OUR PURPLE MOUNTAINS'
MAJESTY AND HE SAW THE
DESSTRICTION OF THOSE THINGS,
THE SHORT-SIGHTED DESTRUCTION BY
INDUSTRY AS REALLY AN ATTACK ON
AMERICAN VALUES AND SOVEREIGNTY.
>> IS GLOBAL WARMING TODAY THE
BIGGEST THREAT?
>> I THINK GLOBAL WARMI
THEGRAVE  GRAVEST THREAT TO, YOU
KNOW, THE POPULATION IS A
THREAT.
BUT GLOBAL WARMING, IT'S THE
PRODUCT OF A WAR BETWEEN OLD
ENERGY, THE CARBON CRONNIES WHO,
BY THE WAY,
COULD NOT STAY IN
BUSINESS IN A TRUE
FREE MARKET
CAPITALISM BECAUSE THESE NEW
TECHNOLOGY LIKE WIND AND SOLAR
CAN PRODUCE ELECTROPICS AND
DELIVER THEM TO THEIR
CUSTOMERS
MUCH MORE EFFICIENTLY AND MUCH
CHEAPER THAN THE OLD ENERGY
ECONOMY.
THE ONLY WAY THAT THEY
MAINTAINED THEIR FOOT HOLD IN
OUR ECONOMY IS THROUGH
ENORMOUS
SUBSIDIES AND THROUGH THE
DOMINATION OF THE POLITICAL
PROCESS YOU, THROUGH, AGAIN,
THROUGH THE SUBVERSION OF
DEMOCRACY.
IF WE COULD TAKE THE SUBSIDIES
AWAY FROM COAL AND OIL, A
TRILLION DOLLARS OF SUBSIDIES
EVERY YEAR THAT THEY GET, THEY
COULDN'T SURVIVE IN THE
MARKETPLACE.
WE NEED A MARKETPLACE THAT DOES
WHAT A MARKET IS SUPPOSED TO DO,
WHICH IS TO REWARD GOOD
BEHAVIOR, WHICH IS EFFICIENCY
AND PUNISH BAD BEHAVIOR, WHICH
IS INEFFICIENCY AND WASTE.
RIGHT NOW, WE HAVE A MARKETPLACE
THAT IS GOVERNED BY RULES THAT
WERE RIGGED BY THE
CARBON
INCUMBENTS TO REWARD THE
DIRTIEST, FILTHIEST, MOST
POISONOUS, MOST ADDICTIVE FUELS
FROM HELL RATHER THAN THE CHIEF,
CLEAN, GREEN, HOLSOM AND PAY
HEAVEN.
>> WHAT ABOUT THE ORDINARY
AMERICANS WHO BELIEVE THAT
HUMANS ARE NOT THE CAUSE OF ALL
OF THIS?
IS IT THEIR FAULT THEY DON'T
UNDERSTAND?
DON'T THEY HAVE A VALID POINT IN
THE SENSE THAT THAT'S HOW THEY
REALLY FEEL?
>> A FEELING IS NOT A FACT.
OUR COUNTRY IS ALMOST UNIQUE IN
PEOPLE BELIEVING THAT GLOBAL
WARMING
IS NOT HUMAN CAUSED.
THE REST OF THE WORLD
UNDERSTANDS THE CONNECTION.
SCIENCE IS FACTS AND THE SCIENCE
IS VERY CLEAR AND THE SCIENCE IS
CONSENT ANNUAL AND THE REASON IN
THIS COUNTRY THAT PEOPLE DON'T
BELIEVE THAT THERE IS, YOU KNOW,
THAT THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE, A
LARGE GROUP OF PEOPLE, YOU KNOW,
NEARLY 50% THAT DON'T ACCEPT THE
SCIENCE BEHIND GLOBAL WARMING IS
BECAUSE OF PROPAGANDA.
THE COMPANIES LIKE EXXON AND THE
KOCH BROTHERS HAVE SPENT
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS
OVER THE PAST, SINCE
1997, IN A
CONSERVATIVE, DELIBERATE EFFORT
TO PERSUADE AMERICANS THAT
GLOBAL WARMING IS A HOAX, AND
THEY HAVE USED ADVERTISING, AND
THEY'VE SET UP THESE FORN THINK
TANKS ON CAPITOL HILL AND
STOCKED THEM WITH THESE FORN TO
BE ACCO SCIENTISTS THAT WE CALL
BIOSTITUTES, AND SLICK PR FLACKS
AND VOODOO COMMITTEES AND THIS
MEN AGE REOF KIND OF SOCIOPATHS
AGERIE OF KIND OF SOCIOPATHS.
>> SORRY I CAN'T PATHS?
>> SORRY I DON'T PATHS WHO ARE
PUTTING THOUGH THEIR OWN
INTERESTS, THEIR OWN FINANCIAL
INTERESTS AGAINST THE LIVES AND
HEALTH OF THE SOCIETY AS A
WHOLE, PEOPLE WHO ARE
ESSENTIALLY ANTI-SOCIAL.
>> DOES THAT APPLY TO EVERYBODY
WHO WORKS IN THE COAL AND OIL
YOU DIDN'T THAT THEY ARE ALL BAD
PEOPLE?
THEY ARE ALL SOCIOPATHS?
>> NO.
OF COURSE NOT.
MOST PEOPLE WHO WORK IN THE COAL
INDUSTRY, FOR EXAMPLE, COAL
MINERS, THERE IS ABOUT
80,000
COAL MINERS LEFT IN
AMERICA AND
MOST OF THOSE PEOPLE ARE LIVING
IN COMMUNITIES WHERE THEY ARE
DESPERATE FOR
JOBS.
AND THIS IS WHAT THEY ARE
TRAINED FOR AND THIS IS THE WORK
THAT THEY ARE DOING.
AND DEPENDING UPON WHAT KIND OF
COAL MINING -- IT CAN BE
HIGH-PAYING WORK, OR IT CAN BE
VERY LOW-PAYING AND DANGEROUS
WORK.
THOSE ARE NOT BAD PEOPLE.
I AM TALKING ABOUT -- I AM
TALKING ABOUT THE -- ABOUT THE
PEOPLE WHO RUN THESE OIL
COMPANIES, PARTICULARLY PEOPLE
LIKE LEE RAYMOND, PEOPLE LIKE
DAVID KOCH AND
CHARLES KOCH AND
THE PEOPLE WHO RUN THESE BIG
THINK TANKS ON CAPITOL HILL, THE
AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE,
THE COMPETITIVE ENTERPRISE
INSTITUTE, THE CATO INSTITUTE,
MARSHAL INSTITUTE, CLEVER PEOPLE
WHO ARE DELIBERATELY LYING TO
THE AMERICAN PUBLIC,
DELIBERATELY DECEIVING PEOPLE IN
ORDER TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
INDUSTRY THAT THE HIGH LEVEL
PEOPLE IN AN INDUSTRY
CONTINUE
TO COLLECT THEIR INCOME.
SO, IT'S NOT, YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT
THE LOWER TIERS OF THE INDUSTRY
THAT I WOULD SAY ARE BAD PEOPLE.
I DON'T THINK THAT AT ALL.
I THINK THEY ARE JUST REGULAR
PEOPLE WHO ARE LIKE THE REST OF
US TRYING TO MAKE OUR WAY IN THE
WORLD
AND SURVIVE, BUT I THINK
THAT THE PEOPLE WHO ARE KIN
I'VING TO LIE TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE
IVING
TO LIE TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE,
WITH THIS MASSIVE PROPAGANDA
CAMPAIGN, THOSE ARE SOCIOPATHS.
>> YOU WROTE RECENTLY
CORPORATIONS THAT DELIBERATELY,
PURPOSELY AND SYSTEM AT
INCLUDING SPONSOR CLIMATE LIES
SHOULD BE GIVEN THE DEATH
PENALTY.
EXPLAIN WHAT YOU MEAN.
THIS?
>> YEAH.
YOU KNOW, CORPORATIONS EXIST
UNDER
CHARTERS THAT ARE -- THAT
ARE ISSUED BY THE STATE.
IT'S ESSENTIALLY A LICENSE TO DO
BUSINESS IN A PARTICULAR
STATE.
AND IN EVERY STATE THAT ISSUES
CORPORATE LICENSES, THE LICENSE
REQUIRES
THAT THE CORPORATION
FUNCTION FOR THE PUBLIC
INTERESTS AND THAT THEY CAUSE
NO
HARM.  SO, IF
A CORPORATION
BEGINS TO CAUSE HARM OR
IF THEY
FUNCTION AGAINST THE PUBLIC
INTEREST OR CONDUCT THEMSELVES
IN WAYS THAT ARE CONTRARY TO THE
PUBLIC INTEREST, THE SECRETARY
OF STATE OR THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
OF
THAT STATE HAS THE RIGHT TO
THE WITHDRAW THEIR CHARTER, AND
IF IT'S A FOREIGN CORPORATION,
IN OTHER WORDS, A CORPORATION
THAT IS ORGANIZED UNDER THE LAWS
OF THIS STATE, OF A DIFFERENT
STATE, BUT IT HAS THE RIGHT TO
OPERATE IN YOUR STATE, YOUR
ATTORNEY GENERAL CAN WITHDRAW
THAT OPERATIONAL LICENSE AND
THIS HAS BEEN DONE BEFORE IN
1998.
THE REPUBLICAN ATTORNEY GENERAL
OF
THE STATE OF NEW YORK, DENNIS
BACHOW, GAVE THE CORPORATE DEATH
PENALTY TO THE TOBACCO INSTITUTE
AND TO SOME OF THE OTHER FRONT
GROUPS FOR THE TOBACCO INDUSTRY.
THE TOBACCO INSTITUTE WAS VERY,
VERY EFFECTIVE.
IT ESSENTIALLY SHIELDED THE TON
ACCO INDUSTRY.
THIS WAS KILLING ONE OUT OF
EVERY FOUR OR FIVE OF ITS
CUSTOMERS THAT USED ITS PRODUCT
AS DIRECTED.
THE CARBON INDUSTRY, WITH MUCH
GREATER PROFIT DID HAD STAKE IN
REVENUES AT STAKE, IS DOING THE
SAME THING TODAY.
THEY HAVE CREATED A WHOLE
STRING, NOT JUST TWO OR THREE OF
THESE FRONT GROUPS.
THEY PRETEND TO DO SIGNS.
THEY DO FAKE SCIENCE.
>> COMING UP ON YOU TALK TO
AL JAZEERA, WE WILL ASK ROBERT
KENNEDY, JR., ABOUT SOME
OF THE
UNIQUE EXPERIENCES OF
BEING A KENNEDY.
WELCOME BACK.
OUR GUEST THIS WEEK, ROBERT
KENNEDY, JR.
>> I WANT TO ASK YOU A LITTLES
ABOUT YOUR LIFE STORY.
THE EARLY
1980S, YOU WERE BUSTED
FOR HEROIN USE?
>> I STARTED TAKING DRUGS WHEN I
WAS YOUNG, SOON AFTER MY DAD
DIED.
IT WAS A STRUGGLE
FOR ME THAT I
DEALT WITH SUFBLINGS AND WHEN I
WAS
29 YEARS OLD.
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE MAY NOT DRAW
THE CONNECTION BETWEEN THE
UNBELIEVABLE THINGS YOU HAD TO
WITNESS AND GO THROUGH AS A
CHILD, THE DEATH OF YOUR UNCLE,
THE DEATH OF YOUR FATHER AND,
PERHAPS,
THE CONNECTION WITH
DRUG USE?
>> I DON'T THINK IT HAD MUCH TO
DO WITH IT.
THERE ARE MANY, MANY PEOPLE WHO
HAVE BEEN THROUGH A LOT WORSE
THINGS THAN I WENT THROUGH.
I LOST MY DAD WHEN I WAS
14.
AND TO VIOLENCE, BUT THERE ARE
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE LIVING IN THE
WORST PARTS OF OUR
COUNTRY, IN
HARLEM AND WATTS AND
APALACHIA
AND THE MIGRANT
WORKER FIELDS IN
THE SOUTHERN STATES OR IN
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA WHO LOSE
THEIR PARENTS TO DISEASE OR TO
VIOLENCE.
>> THAT'S A DIRECT RESULT OF
THEIR POVERTY AND DESPERATION
AND THOSE KIDS DON'T HAVE MANY
OF THE ADVANTAGES THAT I HAD.
YOU KNOW, I HAD A TRAGEDY BUT
EVERYBODY HAS TRAGEDY IN THEIR
LIVES.
AND I --
>> YOU ALSO HAD TO DEAL WITH --
>> I ALSO HAD A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT OF SUPPORT.
A VERY, VERY STRONG FAMILY.
I HAD THE RESOURCES FOR A GOOD
EDUCATION, AND SO I HAD
ADVANTAGES.
>> THERE IS SOMETHING DIFFERENT
ABOUT GOING THROUGH IT IN THE
VERY PUBLIC MANNER IN WHICH YOUR
FAMILY HAS HAD TO GO THROUGH IT.
>> THERE MAY BE MOOREDSHIP IN
GOING THROUGH IT
PRIVATELY.
SO IS A LIKE MY MOTHER SAYS,
EVERYBODY TAKES THEIR LICKS, YOU
KNOW.
AND THE ENEMY OF ANY PRODUCTIVE
LIFE IS
SELF-PITY.
THE ADVERSARY AND IT'S TOXIC.
AND
THAT, YOU KNOW, WE ALL --
EVERYBODY STRUGGLES WITH
SOMETHING.
IT MAKES US THE KIND OF PEOPLE
THAT CHALLENGE AND, YOU KNOW,
THE EXPERIENCE IN SOME CASE OF
OVERCOMING IT ARE WHAT BUILDS
OUR CHARACTER
AND, YOU KNOW,
ENRICHES OUR LIVES AND MAKES US
EFFECTIVE PEOPLE.
>> YOU ALSO SPENT TIME IN A
PRISON IN PUERTO RICO FOR SOME
OF YOUR ACTIVISM.
WHAT WAS THAT EXPERIENCE LIKE?
>> I WAS
REPRESENTING 10,000
PEOPLE ON THE ISLAND OF
VIACOS
WHO WERE BEING BOMBED BY THE
NAVY
AND I -- AND THERE WERE
PERSONS -- THEY WERE
EXPERIENCING DEVASTATING IMPACTS
ON THE HIGHEST UNEMPLOYMENT IN
THE CARIBBEAN AND THE HIGHEST
CANCER RATES IN THE CARIBBEAN.
THEIR FOOD WAS POISONED WITH
LEAD, WITH
ARSENIC, THE
BY-PRODUCTS OF THE DEAD NATION
OF NAVAL ORDINANCE
.
THEIR FISHERIES WERE BEING
DESTROYED AND
SCHOOLS WERE BEING
DESTROYED BY THE IMPACT OF THE
NAVY's BOMBING.
THIS WOULD NOT HAVE HAPPENED.
THESE WERE AMERICAN -- IF THESE
WERE AMERICAN CITIZENS.
I REPRESENTED THE PEOPLE ON THE
ISLAND TO TRY TO GET THE NAVY TO
CHANGE SOME
OF ITS PERHAPS.
WE WON OUR LITIGATION, BUT THE
NAVY CONTINUED.  SO THE PEOPLE
ON THE ISLAND LED BY THE MAYOR
ASKED ME TO ENGAGE IN A CIVIL
DISOBEDIENCE WHICH I DID.
AT THE TIME, I SAID, HOW LONG DO
YOU THINK THEY WILL PUT ME IN
PRISON?
THEY SAID PROBABLY TWO OR OR
THREE DAYS WHICH WAS OKAY.
I ENDED UP HAVING TO GO TO JAIL
FOR 34 DAYS, A MAXIMUM SECURITY
PRISON IN PUERTO RICO.
YOU ASKED WHAT IT WAS LIKE.
FOR ME, IT WAS A WONDERFUL
EXPERIENCE.
>> REALLY?
>> IT WAS VERY QUIET.
I HAD NO CELL PHONE.
DECISIONS.
I GOT TO READ BOOKS THAT I HAD
NOT, THAT HAD BEEN SITTING ON MY
SHELF FOR 20 YEARS.
AND IT WAS LIKE ALMOST GOING ON
LIKE A CATHOLIC RELIGIOUS
RETREAT, YOU KNOW, WHICH I USED
TO GO ON WHEN I WAS A KID.
THE PEOPLE IN THE
PRISON WERE --
WE ALL HAD MEALS TOGETHER EVERY
DAY WHEN THEY LET US OUT OF OUR
CELLS.
THERE WAS 140 PEOPLE IN THE CELL
BLOCK AND ABOUT HALF OF THEM,
ABOUT 60 OF THEM WHEN I GOT
THERE WERE POLITICAL PRISONERS
AND THE REST OF THEM WERE GANG
MEMBERS AND, YOU KNOW, PEOPLE
WHO HAD COMMITTED N SOME CASES,
HEINOUS CRIMES.
BUT THIS KIND OF GESTALT
DEVELOPED IN THE PRISON WHERE WE
AULD WATCHED THE T.V. EVERY
NIGHT AND WATCHED THE COVERAGE
ON THE FROSTS AGAINST YAKOS AND
IT POLITSIZED EVERYBODY IN THE
PRISON AND BROUGHT THEM TOGETHER
AND IT WAS REALLY KIND OF AN
EXTRAORDINARY PROCESS WATCHING
THAT,
WATCHING PEOPLE WHO NEVER
SAW THEMSELVES AS PART OF A
POLITICAL PROCESS, ALL OF THE
SUDDEN IDENTIFYING WITH, YOU
KNOW, WITH THE -- WITH THE
PROBLEMS OF THE PEOPLE OF THE
ISLAND, YOU KNOW,
PEOPLE WERE
SORT OF HARDENED
CRIMINALS WHO
WERE ALL OF THE SUDDEN, SPEAK
WITH EMPATHY ABOUT THESE
INNOCENT CHILDREN AND
COMMUNITIES WHOSE LIVES WERE
BEING DESTROYED BY THE GREATEST
POWER ON EARTH.
>> COMING UP, ROBERT KENNEDY,
JR., TALKS ABOUT WHAT HE
PERCEIVES TO BE THE DECLINE IN
AMERICAN MORAL AUTHORITY.
>>> I AM DAVID SHUSTER.
THIS IS "TALK TO AL JAZEERA."
WE ARE
SPEAKING WITH ROBERT
KENNEDY, JR.
>> THERE IS A CAMPAIGN AGAINST
THE ISLAMIC STATE AND WHAT DO
YOU MAKE ABOUT HOW THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION IS HANDLING IT?
>> I THINK THE OBAMA
INHERITED, YOU
KNOW, A DISMISSAL SITUATION.
YOU KNOW, THE ORIGINAL PROBLEM
WAS US GOING IN TO A IRAQ IN THE
FIRST PLACE, WHICH WAS
PROBABLY
THE WORST FOREIGN POLICY MISTAKE
IN AMERICAN HISTORY TO ATTACK A
COUNTRY A THAT HAD NOT ATTACKED
US ANDPOSED NO THREAT TO US.
I THINK IT'S A BAD USE OF
AMERICAN MILITARY POWER.
I THINK THAT YOU THE KIND OF
PROBLEMS THAT NEED TO BE SOLVED
IN THE MIDDEAST ARE PROBLEMS
THAT DON'T NEED MORE GUNS AND
WEAPONS AND BOMBS.
I THINK PROBABLY THE MORE
APPROPRIATE RESPONSE TO .9-11
WOULD HAVE BEEN A COMMITMENT BY
GEORGE BUSH TO GET -- GO BEFORE
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
AND SAY WE
ARE EMBROILED TO WARS IN THE MID
EAST BECAUSE WE ARE ADDICTED TO
OIL.
WE ARE BORROWING A BILLION
DOLLARS A DAY FROM NATIONS THAT
DON'T SHARE OUR VALUES IN ORDER
TO IMPORT A BILLION DOLLARS OF
OIL A DAY AND IN MANY CASES FROM
NATIONS THAT ARE OUTRIGHT
HOSTILE TO US WHERE WE ARE IN
ESSENCE FUNDING BOTH SIDES OF
WAR AGAINST TERROR THROUGH OUR
ADDICTION
TO OIL THE SOLUTION IS
NOT TO DROP BOMBS ON PEOPLE.
THE SOLUTION IS TO GET OFF OF
OIL IN THIS COUNTRY.
WE NEED TO TURN EVERY AMERICAN
INTO AN ENERGY ENTREPRENEUR,
EVERY HOME INTO A POWER PLANT.
WE DON'T HAVE TO BE ADDICTED TO
GROUNDS.
>> WE DON'T HAVE TO KILL
AMERICANS.
WE DON'T HAVE TO BOMB WEDDING
PARTIES AND SPY ON PEOPLE WITH
DRONES AND DON'T HAVE TO ERODE
OUR OWN CONSTITUTION.
WE DON'T HAVE TO SPENT
$700,000,000,000 A YEAR ON THE
MILITARY, MORE THAN ALL OF THE
NATIONS IN THE WORLD COMBINED.
AMERICANS?
>> DO YOU SEE ANYBODY IN THE
POLITICAL LANDSCAPE TODAY WHO IS
ASKING THOSE QUESTIONS?
I MEAN WE THINK ABOUT HILLARY
DELINTON OR
ELIZABETH WARREN OR
JIM WEBB.
>> MAYBE ELIZABETH WARREN IS.
I THINK BERNIE SAND ISSUES IS.
I THINK EVEN RAND PAUL IS ASKING
THOSE PARTICULAR QUESTIONS.
>> FAIR TO ASSUME YOU WOULDN'T
NECESSARILY BE A RAND PAUL
SUPPORTER, THOUGH?
>> NO.
I WOULDN'T BE A RAND PAUL
SUPPORTER.
BUT, YOU KNOW, I BELIEVE THAT HE
HAS SOME OF HIS PHILOSOPHY HAS A
LOT OF APPEAL TO ME.
>> WOULD YOU SUPPORT HILLARY
2016?
>> I -- I LOVE HILLARY CLINTON,
AND THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT I
AGREE WITH EVERYTHING THAT SHE
SAYS.
I THINK THAT WE HAVE GONE DOWN A
WRONG BAD ROAD IN THIS COUNTRY,
YOU KNOW, TOWARDS A KIND OF A
FWAR STATE.
SCAN
SCAN.
THE REAL DAMAGE DONE TO US BY
THE 9-11 ATTACKS WAS THE DAMAGE
OURSELVES, YOU
KNOW,
SUSPENDING -- BASICALLY
TREATING THE BILL OF RIGHTS -- I
AM A STRICT CONSTIT-TUESDAYAL
CONSTRUCTIONIST AND I BELIEVE
THAT THE BILL OF RIGHTS ARE
SACRED AND THAT, YOU KNOW, THE
REPUBLICANS WANT TO TREAT THEM
AND THE MIL TARRISTS WANT TO
TREME THEM AS IF THEY ARE A
LUXURY WE CAN NO LONGER STAFFORD
IN OUR COUNTRY AND WE CAN
SUSPEND HABEAS CORPUS AND
TORTURE TEAM AND THAT WE CAN SPY
ON OUR OWN CITIZENS AND DO
WARRANTLESS
WEAR TAPPING AND
INVESTIGATIONS AND THAT WE CAN
SUSPEND THE ANCIENT RIGHT TO
JURY TRIAL AND THAT WE CAN
CONFINE PEOPLE, YOU KNOW, FROM
ALL OVER THE WORLD, AND, YOU
KNOW, I DON'T THINK IT'S GOOD
FOR AMERICA.
I DON'T THINK IT'S GOOD FOR OUR
SECURITY.
WHEN I WAS A LITTLE BOY IN
1965,
MY FATHER TOOK ME TO EUROPE, TO
FRANCE AND GERMANY, AND TO
POLAND AND IT WILL
ITALY AND
MANY OTHER COUNTRIES, AND
EVERYWHERE WE WENT, WE WERE MET
EVEN IN THE COMMUNIST COUNTRIES
WHERE THE GOVERNMENTS TRIED TO
HIDE THAT WE WERE THERE, WE
WOULD STILL BE MET BY
SPONTANEOUS CROWDS, SOME
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
WOULD COME OUT
ON THE STREET
WAVING TINY AMERICAN FLAGS AND
CHEERING FOR MY FATHER AS A
SURROGATE FOR THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA.
THEY LOVED OUR COUNTRY.
THEY SAW THEY WERE STARVED FOR
OUR LEADERSHIP, FOR OUR MORAL
AUTHORITY.
THEY DIDN'T WANT OUR BULLYING
AND THEY KNEW THE
DIFFERENCE AND
IN LATIN AMERICA AND IN AFRICA
AND ASIA AND, MY FATHER
ENCOUNTERED THE SAME KIND OF
CROWDS BECAUSE THE IDEALISM
ABOUT AMERICA's MISSION IN THE
WORLD AS AN EXEM MARRY NATION,
AS A MODEL, A TEMPLATE FOR THE
GREATEST VALUES OF HUMANITY, AND
THAT'S WHAT WE REPRESENTED AND
TODAY, YOU KNOW, THOSE PEOPLE NO
LONGER RESPECT OUR COUNTRY, AND
OUR COUNTRY IS WIDELY HATED.
MANY PEOPLE WANT TO COME HERE
FOR THE WE THINK, BUT IT DIDN'T
MEAN THAT THEY ADMIRE OUR VALUES
ANYMORE.
AND THAT, TO ME, IS ONE OF THE
GREATEST TRAGEDIES OF MY
LIFETIME, THAT
WE'VE LOST, YOU
KNOW, SO MUCH
OF OUR GLOBAL
PRESTIGE AND OUR MORAL AUTHORITY
AND THAT WE DID IT TO OURSELVES.
>> ARE YOU OPTIMISTIC IN THE
LEAST THAT THE UNITED STATES CAN
GET BACK THERE?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THAT'S
WHERE WE NEED TO BE HEADING, YOU
KNOW.
THE -- YOU KNOW, THE JOB
OF
EVERY GENERATION
AND EVERY
POLITICIAN REALLY SHOULD BE TO
PERFECT THE UNION, YOU KNOW.
AND, YOU KNOW, OUR UNION HAS
NEVER LIVED UP TO ITS IDEALS.
WE PASSED A LAW OF PROBABLY THE
MOST IMPORTANT IN
1907 THAT MADE
IT ILLEGAL FOR CORPORATIONS TO
DONATE MONEY TO
FEDERAL
POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS.
AND THAT LAW STAYED IN TACT
UNTIL, YOU KNOW, 100 YEARS LATER
WHEN THIS PARTICULAR SUPREME
COURT, THE MOST
BUSINESS-ORIENTED SUPREME COURT
IN OUR HISTORY, THREW IT OUT
WITH THE CITIZENS UNITED CASE.
SO THAT REALLY HAS UNLEASHED
THE
TSUNAMI OF MONEY FROM BIG OIL
AND FROM, YOU KNOW, BIG CARBON
AND THE FINANCIAL INDUSTRY AND
THE PHARMACEUTICAL
INDUSTRY BACK
INTO OUR POLITICAL PROCESS SO
IT'S HARD TO EVEN CLAIM THAT WE
HAVE A DEMOCRACY ANY MORE IN OUR
COUNTRY.
IT'S REALLY, YOU KNOW, IT'S A
CORPORATE
CLEPTOCRACY.
A PLUTOCRACY, GOVERNED BY THE
WEALTHY
ARISTOCRACY THAT OUR
EUROPEAN ANCESTORS FLED EUROPE
TO COME TO AMERICA
TO ESCAPE.
>> ROBERT KENNEDY, THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR BEING ON "TALK
TO "AL
JAZEERA AMERICA." AYS" WE
APPRECIATE IT.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME?
>> IT WAS TERRIFIC.
THANK YOU.